2.x to 3.x migration script (#15)
neptune-ai/scale-examples: utils/migration_tools/from_legacy_neptune/README.md

- Avoid creating new runs in the source project while the script is running as these might not be copied.
- Timestamp values appended to each step of series metrics are in the local timezone of the script execution environment. This can lead to variations between the source and target run charts if the X-axis is set to relative time and the source run was created in a different timezone.

### Data that isn't copied in the same format
- If the source run doesn't have a `custom_run_id`, the source run ID (`sys/id`) will be used instead as the `run_id` of the target run
- The `monitoring` namespace in the source run is copied to the `runtime` namespace in the target run
- All `sys` attributes except `state`, `description`, `name`, `custom_run_id`, `tags`, and `group_tags` are copied to the `legacy_sys` namespace
- `sys/running_time` and `sys/monitoring_time` are copied to `legacy_sys/running_time` and `legacy_sys/monitoring_time` respectively as floats in seconds
- `sys/size` is copied to `legacy_sys/size` as an integer in bytes

> ### Data that isn't copied

Author: _Data that isn't copied_ above _Notes and Limitations_?

> ### Metadata that isn't copied in the same format
> - If the source run does not have a `custom_run_id`, the source run id (`sys/id`) will be used instead as the `run_id` of the target run
> - The `monitoring` namespace in the source run is copied to the `runtime` namespace in the target run
> - All `sys` attributes except `state`, `description`, `name`, `custom_run_id`, `tags`, and `group_tags` are copied to the `legacy_sys` namespace
> - `sys/running_time` and `sys/monitoring_time` are copied to `legacy_sys/running_time` and `legacy_sys/monitoring_time` respectively as floats in seconds
> - `sys/size` is copied to `legacy_sys/size` as an integer in bytes
> 
> ### Data that isn't copied at all or supported yet
> - Project description and members
> - Project and model metadata
> - Artifacts†

Reviewer: The second heading doesn't really work now. IMO it's enough to mention the upcoming support inside the section. I'd also move `Data that isn't copied` section to be first, as it's more important.

```suggestion
### Data that isn't copied in the same format
- If the source run doesn't have a `custom_run_id`, the source run ID (`sys/id`) will be used instead as the `run_id` of the target run
- The `monitoring` namespace in the source run is copied to the `runtime` namespace in the target run
- All `sys` attributes except `state`, `description`, `name`, `custom_run_id`, `tags`, and `group_tags` are copied to the `legacy_sys` namespace
- `sys/running_time` and `sys/monitoring_time` are copied to `legacy_sys/running_time` and `legacy_sys/monitoring_time` respectively as floats in seconds
- `sys/size` is copied to `legacy_sys/size` as an integer in bytes

### Data that isn't copied
- Project description and members
- Project and model metadata
- Artifacts*
```

- FileSet (including source code)*
- All FileSeries objects*
  - Once FileSeries are supported in Neptune 3.x, the custom steps and descriptions of files in FileSeries still won't be copied
  - Run state: `sys/state`
  - Git info: `source_code/git`

> <sup>*</sup> Support for these will be added in upcoming releases.

Reviewer: (nit) Probably no need to apply superscript to the asterisk?

```suggestion
\* Support for these will be added in upcoming releases.
```

Author: I forgot that escaping exists 🙈

---

## Post-migration checklist

> [ ] Review the logs for any errors. They also contain the URLs of both the source and target runs.  
> [ ] Add users to the new project and assign them relevant roles.
> [ ] Add project description.
> [ ] Recreate [saved views](https://docs.neptune.ai/runs_table/#custom-views), [dashboards](https://docs.neptune.ai/custom_dashboard/), and [reports](https://docs.neptune.ai/reports/) in the new project.
> [ ] Delete the `.tmp_*` folder in the working directory after verifying the migration.

Reviewer: Needs preceding bullet to render as checklist

```suggestion
- [ ] Review the logs for any errors. They also contain the URLs of both the source and target runs.  
- [ ] Add users to the new project and assign them relevant roles.
- [ ] Add project description.
- [ ] Recreate [saved views](https://docs.neptune.ai/runs_table/#custom-views), [dashboards](https://docs.neptune.ai/custom_dashboard/), and [reports](https://docs.neptune.ai/reports/) in the new project.
- [ ] Delete the `.tmp_*` folder in the working directory after verifying the migration.
```

# Copying runs from Neptune Legacy (2.x) to Neptune (3.x)

This script helps you copy runs from Neptune Legacy (2.x) to Neptune (3.x).

---
## Changelog
- 2025-05-19 - Initial release

---

## Prerequisites
- A Neptune 2.x workspace with runs to migrate.
- A Neptune 3.x workspace with write access to migrate the runs to.
- Latest versions of the `neptune-scale` and `neptune` Python packages installed:
  ```bash
  pip install -U neptune-scale neptune
  ```

---

## Quick Start

```bash
python runs_migrator.py \
  --legacy-token <NEPTUNE_2.X_API_TOKEN> \
  --new-token <NEPTUNE_3.X_API_TOKEN> \
  --new-workspace <NEPTUNE_3.X_WORKSPACE_NAME> \
  --legacy-project <LEGACY_WORKSPACE/PROJECT_NAME> \
```

---

## Arguments

| Argument | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `--legacy-token` | Yes | API token for the legacy Neptune workspace (2.x). |
| `--new-token` | Yes | API token for the new Neptune workspace (3.x). |
| `--legacy-project` | Yes | Name of the legacy project in the format `WORKSPACE_NAME/PROJECT_NAME`. |
| `-w`, `--new-workspace` | Yes | Name of the new workspace in Neptune 3.x. |

> | `--new-project` | No | Name of the new project in the format `PROJECT_NAME`. Project will be created if it does not already exist. If not provided, the project name will be the same as the legacy project name. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `--new-project` | No | Name of the new project in the format `PROJECT_NAME`. The project will be created if it doesn't already exist. If not provided, the project name will be the same as the legacy project name. |
```

| `-q`, `--query` | No | Query filter for runs to be copied ([NQL syntax](https://docs-legacy.neptune.ai/usage/nql/)). |
| `--max-workers` | No | Maximum number of parallel workers to use for copying runs. Defaults to using ThreadPoolExecutor's default. |

---

## How It Works

> - The target project is created in the new workspace if it does not already exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The target project is created in the new workspace if it doesn't already exist.
```

- All runs that match the query are copied from the legacy project to the new project.
  - Metrics and parameters are copied from memory
    - The `monitoring/` namespace in the source run is copied to the `runtime/` namespace in the target run.

>     - All `sys` fields (except a few) are copied to the `legacy_sys` namespace.

Reviewer: Let's make it explicit and mention where you can see the exact ones, something like:

```
    - Most `sys` fields are copied to the `legacy_sys` namespace. For details, see [section link]
```

- Attributes:
  - Run state: `sys/state`
  - Git info: `source_code/git`

† Support for these will be added in future releases.

### The following metadata are not copied in the same format
- The `monitoring` namespace in the source run is copied to the `runtime` namespace in the target run
- All `sys` fields except `state`, `description`, `name`, `custom_run_id`, `tags`, and `group_tags` are copied to the `legacy_sys` namespace
- If the source run does not have a `custom_run_id`, the source run id (`sys/id`) will be used instead as the `run_id` of the target run
- `sys/running_time` and `sys/monitoring_time` are copied to `legacy_sys/running_time` and `legacy_sys/monitoring_time` respectively as floats in seconds
- `sys/size` is copied to `legacy_sys/size` as an integer in bytes

---

## Post-Migration Checklist

[ ] Review the logs for any errors. They also contain the URLs of both the source and target runs.  
[ ] Add users to the new project and assign them relevant roles  
[ ] Add project description  
[ ] Recreate saved views, dashboards, and reports in the new project  

> [ ] Delete the `.tmp_{PROJECT_NAME}_migration_%Y%m%d%H%M%S` folder in the working directory after verifying the migration  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ ] Add users to the new project and assign them relevant roles.
[ ] Add project description.
[ ] Recreate saved views, dashboards, and reports in the new project.
[ ] Delete the `.tmp_{PROJECT_NAME}_migration_%Y%m%d%H%M%S` folder in the working directory after verifying the migration.
```

---

## Troubleshooting

- **Project not found:** Ensure the `--legacy-project` is in the correct format and exists in your legacy workspace.
- **Authentication errors:** Double-check your API tokens and permissions in both the source and target projects.
- **Partial migration:** Check the log file for errors and rerun the script as needed.
- **Performance:** Increase `--max-workers` for faster migration, but be mindful of API rate limits.

---

## FAQ

**Q: Can I rerun the script if it fails?**  

> A: Yes, the script is idempotent for already-migrated runs.

Reviewer: Let's not use more complex terms than needed

```suggestion
A: Yes. A restart takes already-migrated runs into account.
```

**Q: Are artifacts and files copied?**  
A: Not yet. See the Caveats section for details.

**Q: How do I filter which runs to migrate?**  
A: Use the `--query` argument with [NQL syntax](https://docs-legacy.neptune.ai/usage/nql/).

---

> ## Documentation
> 
> - [Neptune 2.x Documentation](https://docs-legacy.neptune.ai/)
> - [Neptune 3.x Documentation](https://docs.neptune.ai/)
> - [NQL Query Syntax](https://docs-legacy.neptune.ai/usage/nql/)
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Support and Feedback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Documentation

- [Neptune 2.x documentation](https://docs-legacy.neptune.ai/)
- [Neptune 3.x documentation](https://docs.neptune.ai/)
- [NQL query syntax](https://docs-legacy.neptune.ai/usage/nql/)

---

## Support and feedback
```

| `-q`, `--query` | No | Query filter for runs to be copied ([NQL syntax](https://docs-legacy.neptune.ai/usage/nql/)). |
| `--max-workers` | No | Maximum number of parallel workers to use for copying runs. Defaults to ThreadPoolExecutor’s default. See [ThreadPoolExecutor](https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html#concurrent.futures.ThreadPoolExecutor) for details. |

---

## How It Works

- The target project is created in the new workspace if it does not already exist.
- All runs that match the query are copied from the legacy project to the new project.
  - Metrics and parameters are copied from memory
    - The `monitoring/` namespace in the source run is copied to the `runtime/` namespace in the target run.
    - All `sys` fields (except a few) are copied to the `legacy_sys` namespace.
  - Files are first downloaded to a temporary directory and then uploaded to the new run.
    - Temporary files are stored in a `.tmp_*` directory for troubleshooting. You can delete this folder after verifying the migration. Ensure that you have sufficient space to store the temporary files.
  - Unsupported metadata (see Notes and Limitations) is skipped.

---

> ## Notes and Limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Notes and limitations
```

> - Runs can be copied only one project at a time.
> - If a new project name is not provided and a project with the same key as the source project already exists in the new workspace, the script will silently fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Runs can be copied from only one project at a time.
- If a new project name isn't provided and a project with the same key as the source project already exists in the new workspace, the script will silently fail.
```
